---
status:
  - draft-ready
---
The context in which people use your product is, in their value perception, as important as the product itself Let me explain this by an example. Just imagine that you’re having dinner at a Michelin star restaurant. The chef may be cooking exquisitely, the wine might be in perfect harmony with the food, but if the waiter gives you the feeling you are just one of the many, many guests he has had to wait on, then the food suddenly doesn’t taste that good anymore. Objectively you might be eating the best dinner you will ever have in your life, but subjectively the experience will be disappointing because of the context. This may seem like an obvious example, but it goes for everything. I’ll give you another example of how context defines our perception of value. The Australian comic duo Hamish & Andy set up an experiment with the famous singer Ed Sheeran. They created the Ed Sheeran Peep Show. In short, they put Ed Sheeran in an actual peep show, and tried to get people in for 2 dollars to come and see him play. It took them well over 2 hours and a lot of extra convincing to get the first visitor in to see Ed Sheeran, whose concert tickets typically go at well over 80 euros apiece. But it was the context that devaluated the whole perception of value, while the product (Ed Sheeran) was the same. The video is hilarious; if you have a spare 6 minutes, you ought to view it.

You can offer someone psychological value by working with the forces and job-to-be-done of the Influence Framework. Think about the Uber taxi rides. They are not objectively better than traditional taxi rides. You still must wait for your taxi to arrive, you still have to pay a considerable amount of fare (sometimes even a lot more than for traditional taxi rides), and you don’t know your driver. But Uber does an excellent job of offering psychological value. We, as humans, all hate uncertainty. What Uber did was to design an interface in order to reduce any uncertainty. You can follow the trip of your taxi in real-time; you can see the fixed fee of the taxi ride. You can do the financial transaction from home, so you don’t have to hassle with money. You are shown the satisfaction rating of the driver, and you can share your trip with trusted contacts. The taxi ride is not objectively better, but subjectively it is a world of difference. By taking away anxieties, Uber has created a massive business model without even innovating that much, except for radically making their UX human-centred. Reducing uncertainty, is what you also see applied at traffic lights. By indicating the waiting time before the light turns green, it gives people a sense of control, and they are less inclined to drive through a red light. Is this a breakthrough, highly technological innovation that needed years of expensive R&D? No, it is a psychological innovation with a substantial impact on behaviour. That’s changing the experience.