---
id: b0679842-1660-11ef-a0d7-a30f1947a3d9
---

# Fwd: How AI will reinvent Marketing
#Omnivore

[Read on Omnivore](https://omnivore.app/me/fwd-how-ai-will-reinvent-marketing-18f943d58b4)
[Read Original](https://andrewchen.substack.com/p/ai-and-marketing-what-happens-next?isFreemail=true&post_id=144673032&publication_id=2401262&r=1hfvyr&token=eyJ1c2VyX2lkIjo4OTc2MDkxNSwicG9zdF9pZCI6MTQ0NjczMDMyLCJpYXQiOjE3MTU4NzEzODcsImV4cCI6MTcxODQ2MzM4NywiaXNzIjoicHViLTI0MDEyNjIiLCJzdWIiOiJwb3N0LXJlYWN0aW9uIn0.nLSx0-OeN4aMbJZqB3WaEBrx3PakseSONdG-JFhurL8&triedRedirect=true)

## Highlights

> **Instant internationalization**. We think of launching products today country-by-country, usually to English-speaking markets, and then go from there. Why not simply launch to the entire world and have all the ads, message, and even product UX be in all the right languages? Why not have all the images reference the right cultural touchstones, with the best colors and imagery for each culture? [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/fwd-how-ai-will-reinvent-marketing-18f943d58b4#16e8fb23-7fa9-4491-97c1-efe163be335c)  

> **Explosion in the depth of content**. Let’s say you create a complex product like a video game, and then you want to promote it. You would then use a lesser medium, like a video trailer, to demo the video game. But what if video games themselves became trivially low-cost to create? Would you then use a video game to promote a new toy you’re selling? And if so, why not 100 video games? Or a season of an entire TV show? And if you’re watching a TV show, and you hit pause, will you be able to then enter the world and endlessly interact with the characters? You could talk to them for hours. Or add new chapters or side stories for your favorite characters? Or better yet, would you have generative AI build an entire award-winning level TV show simply to promote your new watch brand? You could imagine the depth and complexity of different digital assets become interchangeable and infinite, such that what we consider ads right now might be better seen as experiences/products in themselves. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/fwd-how-ai-will-reinvent-marketing-18f943d58b4#fd738201-db21-4adf-ac65-19445fc34fef)  

> Will talking to LLMs become commonplace and eventually the default? What happens if we go to voice and chat as the primary way to interact with computers, as we manage them more as we’d manage a team of employees? Will marketing messages become embedded in those conversations, either as sponsored recommendations or otherwise? Many new marketing channels will be invented, and many existing channels will have to be reinvented (or will ride off into the sunset). Hard to predict the dominant UI paradigm in the coming years. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/fwd-how-ai-will-reinvent-marketing-18f943d58b4#bc0eb723-8d53-4470-b3a4-9040c2adf707)  

> **Companions as a dominant new channel**. I do think it’s pretty clear that talking to companions deserves its own mention. We already have so-called parasocial relationships with streamers and celebrities where we feel like they are friends, but actually we’re never going to meet them. AI companions can of course be that but on steroids. Today a startup might never hire a mega streamer to promote their new app because it’s just expensive and costly to buy a sponsorship. But in the future, as AI allows the $-to-labor conversion, every startup could create a streamer that just demos their product 24x7\. Or maybe an army of streamers. That’s almost too overtly commercial and the better way to think of it might be that we primarily interact with companions the way we interact with apps today — it’s almost like they are a new UX for a computer, and we will find many ways to insert ads and marketing messages into this new format. Sometimes it’ll be overt, as in a companion that is fully commercial. They sell you hard. But other times it might be more like the futuristic implementation of product placement or a sponsorship, where a very pleasant and engaging companion casually mentions certain products you’re meant to buy. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/fwd-how-ai-will-reinvent-marketing-18f943d58b4#bb807aaf-09b4-4ae8-a6c5-d68f5ced4b2b)  

> **Authenticity and dilution of design/beauty/more**. In a world where everything is perfect and beautiful, the right way to counter-signal might be to be ugly, authentic, and real. Generative AI will every ad creative and video and image perfect. The people in the marketing will be beautiful (because they won’t be real) and the environments their in will be generated. They’ll say all the right things, because they’ve iterated on billions of variations. In a world that’s saturated with that, what will people respond to? I think we get a hint from today’s social media ecosystem where “corpospeak” social media accounts are boring and receive low engagement — yes, you know the ones I’m talking about, where every post is properly capitalized, has well-crafted messages, etc. They’re robotic. In today’s social media landscape, people respond to other people… people who spell incrrectly and have typos occasionallly so you know they are real. And I think in a world of infinite beauty and polish, we will see “Proof of Human” and a desire for authenticity become a major component of market. (And of course AI will learn to spoof that, and then what…) [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/fwd-how-ai-will-reinvent-marketing-18f943d58b4#a7d124e0-19be-4fd6-97c6-95d5a53e2f7d)  

> Today, Marketing has huge deficiencies. It broadcasts to people over large public media formats, starting with radio and television, and now the Internet. For the most part the message that it broadcasts is static, and targets segments of potentially millions of people, rather than individuals. We invented marketing, because it's cost-effective. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/fwd-how-ai-will-reinvent-marketing-18f943d58b4#e02a6228-8ea6-48d9-ac16-9ca6871609b1)  

> With smarter AI-powered conversations, marketing will look more like sales over time. Rather than 1:many broadcast, we will have many 1:1 agents selling people over chat/phone/video and providing a truly personalized pitch. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/fwd-how-ai-will-reinvent-marketing-18f943d58b4#59067a98-3763-44e6-8649-5841ca67c64f)  

> We only have marketing because 1:1 sales for everything is too expensive. But with AI allowing people to convert $ to labor, we will see unique combinations of mass 1:1 sales with brand efforts to give your virtual salesforce air cover. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/fwd-how-ai-will-reinvent-marketing-18f943d58b4#b7838a06-cdb8-4206-838d-9889477e5098)  

> Thus, the next generation of AI-driven marketing might be like scaling up a massive team and having millions or even billions of one-on-one conversations. Perhaps you still want some form of broadcast marketing to help build brand and provide air cover for your sales team, so that there's trust. Or maybe it doesn't matter. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/fwd-how-ai-will-reinvent-marketing-18f943d58b4#b9471a76-654b-4e17-9783-c8f0b0f29cfe)  

